
Last Millennium Reanalysis (LMR) project online reconstructions
(Perkins and Hakim 2017)

Originators: R. Tardif, W. A. Perkins, G. J. Hakim
             University of Washington
             January 2016

How to run an experiment.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

First you must have the data in position to perform an experiment.  Download and
untar the LMR_input_data.tar file from the data repository (doi:10.6069/H5VD6WC0)
to a directory where you will unpack it; here we will call that directory
/home/disk/foo/LMR. This directory must be readable from wherever you plan to
perform the experiment.

tar -xvf LMR_input_data.tar

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=


Second, your environment must have all of the dependencies needed by the LMR
code. We strongly recommend using the Anaconda Python distribution.

https://www.continuum.io/downloads

Install the latest 2.x version. If at any point there is an error for a missing
dependency, install it using conda (the installer that comes with Anaconda).
Currently, you need to install spharm (the Python-wrapped version is called
pyspharm) with special handling:

conda install -c ajdawson pyspharm

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

You are now ready to run an experiment in the code src directory (where this
README file is located).

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

To run an experiment, you must edit configuration file LMR_config.py.  

At a minimum, do the following.

1. set lmr_path to the directory containing the proxy, prior, and calibration
data for the experiment (see details below). use the /home/disk/foo/LMR path
where you unpacked the tar file in the steps described at the top of this file.

2. set datadir_output to the working directory output for LMR. This is where
data will be written during the experiment, so local disk is better (faster)
than over a network. If the directory does not exist, you need to create it
before running an experiment.

3. set archive_dir to the LMR reconstruction archive directory. This is where
the experiment is archived, and datadir_output is scrubbed clean (frees up local
disk space; often the archive is located across a network, but speed is no
longer an issue). Note that data is lost in this step (ensemble mean from full
ensemble), which you may wish to change at some point. Again, if the directory
does not exist, you need to create it before running an experiment.

4. Run the experiment:

python LMR_wrapper2.py

